SAGE3 License - revised Nov 11, 2021

Upon execution of this Agreement by the party identified below ("Licensee"), the
Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois ("Illinois"), on behalf of The
Electronic Visualization Laboratory ("EVL") in the University of Illinois at
Chicago's Computer Science Department, the Board of Trustees of the University
of Hawai'i ("Hawai'i"), on behalf of the Laboratory for Advanced Visualization
and Applications ("LAVA") in the University of Hawai'i at Manoa's Department of
Information and Computer Sciences, and  the Board of Trustees of Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University ("Virginia Tech"), on behalf of the
Center for Human-Computer Interaction ("CHCI") in Virginia Tech's Department of
Computer Science, will provide the SAGE3(tm) ("SAGE3(tm)") software in
Executable Code and/or Source Code form ("Software") to Licensee, subject to the
following terms and conditions. For purposes of this Agreement, Executable Code
is the compiled code, which is ready to run on Licensee's computer. Source code
consists of a set of files that contain the actual program commands that are
compiled to form the Executable Code.

1. The Software is intellectual property owned by Illinois, Hawai'i and Virginia
Tech, and all right, title and interest, including copyright, remain with
Illinois, Hawai'i, and Virginia Tech. Illinois, Hawai'i and Virginia grant, and
Licensee hereby accepts, a restricted, non-exclusive, non-transferable license
to use the Software for academic, research and internal business purposes only,
e.g. not for commercial use (see Clause 7 below), without a fee.

2. Licensee may, at its own expense, create and freely distribute complementary
works that interoperate with the Software, directing others to the EVL server to
license and obtain the Software itself. Licensee may, at its own expense, modify
the Software to make derivative works. Except as explicitly provided below, this
License shall apply to any derivative work as it does to the original Software
distributed by Illinois. Any derivative work should be clearly marked and
renamed to notify users that it is a modified version and not the original
Software distributed by Illinois, Hawai'i, and Virginia Tech. Licensee agrees to
reproduce the copyright notice and other proprietary markings on any derivative
work and to include in the documentation of such work the acknowledgement: "This
software includes SAGE3(tm) middleware developed by the Electronic Visualization
Laboratory at the University of Illinois at Chicago, the Laboratory for Advanced
Visualization and Applications at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa, and the
Center for Human-Computer Interaction at Virginia Tech." Any other distribution
of the Software or any derivative work requires a separate license with
Illinois. Licensee may contact the Office of Technology Management at the
University of Illinois of Chicago (otm@uic.edu) to negotiate an appropriate
license for such distribution.

3. Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED
"AS IS" AND ILLINOIS, HAWAI'I  AND VIRGINIA TECH MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS AND
EXTEND NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OR MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR OTHER
RIGHTS. LICENSEE ASSUMES THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE OF
THE SOFTWARE AND/OR ASSOCIATED MATERIALS. LICENSEE AGREES THAT ILLINOIS, HAWAI'I
AND VIRGINIA TECH SHALL NOT BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM BY LICENSEE OR
ANY THIRD PARTY ON ACCOUNT OF OR ARISING FROM THIS AGREEMENT OR USE OF THE
SOFTWARE AND/OR ASSOCIATED MATERIALS.

4. Licensee understands the Software is proprietary to Illinois, Hawai'i and
Virginia Tech. Licensee agrees to take all reasonable steps to insure that the
Software is protected and secured from unauthorized disclosure, use, or release
and will treat it with at least the same level of care as Licensee would use to
protect and secure its own proprietary computer programs and/or information, but
using no less than a reasonable standard of care. Licensee agrees to provide the
Software only to any other person or entity who has registered with Illinois. If
licensee is not registering as an individual but as an institution or
corporation each member of the institution or corporation who has access to or
uses Software must agree to and abide by the terms of this license. If Licensee
becomes aware of any unauthorized licensing, copying or use of the Software,
Licensee shall promptly notify Illinois in writing. Licensee expressly agrees to
use the Software only in the manner and for the specific uses authorized in this
Agreement.

5. By using or copying this Software, Licensee agrees to abide by the copyright
law and all other applicable laws of the U.S. including, but not limited to,
export control laws and the terms of this license. Illinois, Hawai'i and
Virginia shall have the right to terminate this license immediately by written
notice upon Licensee's breach of, or non-compliance with, any terms of the
license. Licensee may be held legally responsible for any copyright infringement
that is caused or encouraged by its failure to abide by the terms of this
license. Upon termination, Licensee agrees to destroy all copies of the Software
in its possession and to verify such destruction in writing.

6. The user agrees that any reports or published results obtained with the
Software will acknowledge its use by the appropriate citation as follows:
"SAGE3(tm) middleware was developed by the Electronic Visualization Laboratory
at the University of Illinois at Chicago, the Laboratory for Advanced
Visualization and Applications at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa, and the
Center for Human-Computer Interaction at Virginia Tech". Electronic documents
will include a direct link to the official SAGE3(tm) page at
http://www.sagecommons.org.

7. Commercial use of the Software, or derivative works based thereon, REQUIRES A
COMMERCIAL LICENSE. Should Licensee wish to make commercial use of the Software,
Licensee will contact the Office of Technology Management at the University of
Illinois at Chicago (otm@uic.edu) to negotiate an appropriate license for such
use. Commercial use includes: (1) integration of all or part of the Software
into a product for sale, lease or license by or on behalf of Licensee to third
parties, or (2) distribution of the Software to third parties that need it to
commercialize product sold or licensed by or on behalf of Licensee.

8. Government Rights. Because substantial governmental funds have been used in
the development of SAGE3(tm), any possession, use or sublicense of the Software
by or to the Urenited States government shall be subject to such required
restrictions.

9. SAGE3(tm) middleware is being distributed as a research and teaching tool and
as such, EVL, LAVA and CHCI will  encourage contributions from users of the code
that might, at Illinois' sole discretion, be used or incorporated to make the
basic operating framework of the Software a more stable, flexible, and/or useful
product. Licensees who contribute their code to become an internal portion of
the Software agree that such code may be distributed by Illinois under the terms
of this License and may be required to sign an "Agreement Regarding Contributory
Code for SAGE3(tm) Software" before Illinois can accept it (contact otm@uic.edu
for a copy).


